{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-BoldOblique;\f4\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Or, more simply:
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc

\f1\b\fs26 \cf0 Life 
\f2\b0 would 
\f1\b be ec-sta-sy
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs26 \cf0 This musical emphasis matches the spoken emphasis of the phrase, so it is intelligible as a lyric. (Though ecstasy\'92s first syllable doesn\'92t start on the first part of beat three, it is still on the first part of beat three, and therefore still emphasized. Alternatively, since the first part of beat two didn\'92t have a hard stop to it, the emphasis could have rolled over to the second part, \'93ec\'94, which does have a hard stop.)
\fs24 \

\fs26 In contrast, take the second measure: the syllables \'93You\'94, \'93me\'94, and \'93less\'94 are emphasized in the music. This leads to conflicting musical and spoken phrasing:
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc

\fs26 \cf0 Musical Phrasing: 
\b You
\b0  and 
\b me
\b0  end
\b less
\b0 ly \
Spoken Phrasing: 
\b You
\b0  and 
\b me end
\b0 lessly
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs26 \cf0 The singer is now singing the phrase, syllable by syllable, which they think of as syllable-note combinations:
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc

\f2\fs26 \cf0 YOU and ME end LESS lee\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0 \cf0 The singer, for his part, is doing what many singers are taught to do, to make it easier to sustain the singing of words that end with unsingable consonants: the unsingable consonant is displaced onto the front of the next word. In this case, the consonant \'93d\'94 is not singable, so he displaces it onto the next syllable, when he can: \'93and ME\'94 becomes \'93an dME\'94, and \'93end LESS\'94 becomes \'93en dLESS\'94. So, the singer can effectively think of the sung phrase as:
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f2\fs26 \cf0 YOU an dME en dLESS lee\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\pardeftab720\sa180

\f0\fs18 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs26 \cf0 This doesn\'92t cause confusion for listeners, because they\'92re used to hearing it. This does mean, however, that lyric placement does not provide an accurate barometer to a listener of where a word actually ends.
\fs24 \

\fs26 In addition, the singer is singing fudging his vowels, like singers are taught to do, so \'93and\'94 and \'93end\'94 sound almost indistinguishable. So, really, what listeners are hearing is this:
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f2\fs26 \cf0 YOU en dME en dLESS lee\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0 \cf0 Now, the listener\'92s brain has to take this syllabic gobbledy- gook, and parse it into something useful. They\'92ve currently got this mess to deal with (represented in SAMPA syllables):
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc

\f3\i\b\fs26 \cf0 ju 
\f4\b0 En 
\f3\b dmi 
\f4\b0 En 
\f3\b dl@s 
\f4\b0 li\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\i0 They parse the first part just fine, because the emphases
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc

\f1\b\fs26 \cf0 you 
\f2\b0 and 
\f1\b me 
\f4\i\b0 En 
\f3\b dl@s 
\f4\b0 li
\f2\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs26 \cf0 But no one says endLESSly. People say ENDlessly. So, the listeners don\'92t recognize it. They have to work with what they have. They already turned one \'93En d\'94 into an \'93and\'94, so they do it again:
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc

\f1\b\fs26 \cf0 you 
\f2\b0 and 
\f1\b me 
\f2\b0 and 
\f3\i\b l@s 
\f4\b0 li
\f2\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Now, they\'92re just left with LESS lee. And that fits Leslie, a proper noun that fits in context and in emphasis placement. So, the final heard lyric is:
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc

\f1\b\fs26 \cf0 you 
\f2\b0 and 
\f1\b me 
\f2\b0 and 
\f1\b Les- 
\f2\b0 lie
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs26 \cf0 The misunderstanding can be traced back to improper emphasis placement. The songwriter probably didn\'92t even think of that, and now he\'92s stuck: a one-hit-wonder with a misunderstood song. We bet that in interview after interview, someone asks him who Leslie is. It\'92s probably very frustrating \'97 especially since he could have just moved the word an eight note later, and it would have been understood perfectly.
\fs24 \

\fs26 That\'92s the sort of situation this program is going to help avoid.
\fs24 \

\fs26 III. FUTURE WORK
\fs24 \

\fs26 We plan to continue developing and refining the methods through which Melody Matcher makes its determinations. Eventually, we plan to use this as an underlying framework for an interactive virtual environment where your surroundings are affected and created via musical and lyrical input. This should be completed in March 2012, with incremental updates discussed on www.melodymatcher.com.
\fs24 \

\fs26 IV. CONCLUSION
\fs24 \

\fs26 In this paper, we have discussed at a high level parts of the music-lingustic approach that Melody Matcher takes to measure the intelligibility of lyrics. We covered some of the major reasons that lyrics get misheard, along with a few examples. Melody Matcher\'92s specific implementation details, while fully specified elsewhere, were outside the scope of this abstract, and we hope to cover them in a later paper.
\fs24 \
}