{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 In this project, we developed visual representation of the phonetic ambiguity of written prose.  Given a textual phrase, we determine all possible ways that that phrase is likely to be misheard. Each of these mishearings is called an oronym or mondegreen.    We then created a Mondegreen visual tree graphic, with each branch fork representing a possible divergence of aural interpretation.  Each branch segment represents an orthographic word, and the branch radius is scaled to the words\'92 frequency of use in everyday language.  \
Given any valid English phrase, our system will first generate all possible correct phonetic sequences for a General American accent. Then, it parses through these phonetic transcriptions depth-first, looking for valid orthographic words for each subsequent phonetic subsequence, generating full and partial phrases from these words.  While it is doing so, a tree branch is generated on screen for each possible orthographic divergence. Each branch segment represents an orthographic word, and the branch radius is scaled to the words\'92 frequency of use in everyday language.  Each branch has its own copy of its subsequent phonetic sequence. In the event that a orthographic branch\'92s phonetic \'93tail\'94 is not orthographically interpretable, we visually \'93dead-end\'94 the branch with a red sphere.  In the event that the entire phonetic sequence can be parsed full into an orthographic phrase, we indicate a successfully-found oronym with a green sphere.  \
This visual representation allows users to see how many ways a phrase can be misheard.  A particularly strong orthographic phrase before a phonetic dead-end can mislead a listener, causing them to lose track of the words in the phrase.  \
Our visual representation does not take into account n-gram word-proximity, which causes the visual representation to incorrectly weight some branch paths, but overall, it does a fairly good job of weighting the likelihood of a listener following a branch\'92s interpretation as they listen to a phrase.\
In addition to this, we did a multi-phase user study, incorporating over 500 data points from over 157 test subjects.  In the first phrase, we generated oronym strings for the phrase \'93a nice cold hour\'94,  and had over 15 people make approximately 65 recordings of the most common oronym phrases.  In the second phase, we selected fifteen of those recordings, and had over 30 different people transcribe each one.  In the aggregated transcriptions, the most common transcribed phrases corresponded with our metric for the most likely oronym interpretation of the phrase in the recording.  We believe that we could create even better likelihood metrics with the integration of n-grams, and would suggest this for future work. }