{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Selection criteria for oronyms to record and recordings to transcribe\
\
Given that ``a nice cold hour'' has (#) oronyms, and ``an ice cold hour\'92\'92 has (#), it was necessary to narrow down the number of oronyms recorded in phase one of our user study.  \
\
To select which oronyms we would submit to Mechanical Turk for workers to record, we decided to on the following selection criteria:\
-We discarded oronyms that included words with frequency values of less than 30.  Asking a general audience to pronounce uncommon words would likely result in a high rate of unusable recordings. Including uncommon words wouldn\'92t be testing our algorithm\'97it would be testing the vocabulary of the user study subjects, which we\'92re uninterested in.\
-We discarded upper-case pronunciations in the case of oronyms with words whose pronunciation changes depending upon their capitalization (for example, ``nice'' == naIs; ``Nice'' == nis (as in niece) ),   \
-We discarded oronym phrases that included implicit punctuation. For example, the phrase ``Anne I scold our\'92\'92, has an implicit comma between Anne and I.  We did this to avoid halting or ``dramatic'' recording of phrases.\
-We discarded oronyms with any words whose pronunciation is position specific, such as `` \'92n\'92 \'93, normally found in ``Rock \'92n\'92 Roll\'92\'92;  or   `` o\'92 '' , normally found in ``top o\'92 the morning\'92\'92.\
-We only chose oronyms for which all pronunciations of the child oronym phrases were also found in the pronunciations of the root oronym phrase. For example, a root phrase that begins with ``a'' would have an child oronym phrase that begins with ``et\'92\'92, using French pronunciation and dropping the trailing \'92t\'92 . However, ``et'' can also be pronounced with the t, using an American accent. Since our root phrase doesn\'92t include that \'92t\'92 sound, child oronym phrases that begin with ``et'' have at least one pronunciation not match the root phrase\'92s pronunciation.  So, we discard all child oronyms that begin with ``et\'92\'92.\
\
Criteria for transcription recordings\
\
-To limit the number of possible oronyms, we decided that all recordings should be oronyms of BOTH ``an ice cold hour'' and ``a nice cold hour''\
-The pronunciation of the recording must match the expected pronunciation derived from the phonetic dictionary.}