{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red30\green87\blue172;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Transcription Pie Charts (Per Country or country group) \
\
Note to self: to format pie chart layout (including what\'92s included in \'93other\'94 and the size of the other bar, right click on a slice and pick \'93format data series\'94\
\
\
(1) there's something wrong with the data. I forget what. GRAR. Seems fine for now. (Perhaps the problem is that I don\'92t have any way to count UNIQUE workers? I feel like that was a problem for the Demogrpahics pie chart, though)\
\
DANG IT. I forgot to remove my \'93on\'94 \
\
\
(2) Qualifications for "other category: less than 2% of results, or, if there are fewer than 100 transcriptions in a category, less than 2 transcriptions.\
\
\
\
\
This is a graph of all valid transcriptions of any of the ##N## oronym recordings, split up by worker country of origin.\
\
\
\
\

\b \ul English dominated vs non-native\

\i\b0 \ulnone \
Filenames: \
	PieChart-NonNativeEnglishCountries-smallbar.jpg\
	PieChart-EnglishDominantCountries-smallbar.jpg
\i0\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone \
Vars:\
//An ice cold hour; \
//----observed count\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\transcriptionsPerCountry_AnIceColdHour_EnglishDominant \{\cf0 218 \cf2 \}
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\transcriptionsPerCountry_AnIceColdHour_NonNative \{\cf0 134 \cf2 \}\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 //----observed percentage\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\ percentTranscriptionsPerCountry_AnIceColdHour_EnglishDominant \{\cf0 36 \cf2 \}\
\\gdef \\percentTranscriptionsPerCountry_AnIceColdHour_NonNative \{\cf0 38 \cf2 \}\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
//A nice cold hour; \
//----observed count\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\transcriptionsPerCountry_ANiceColdHour_EnglishDominant \{\cf0 133 \cf2 \}
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\transcriptionsPerCountry_ANiceColdHour_NonNative \{\cf0 84 \cf2 \}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
//----observed percentage\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\percentTranscriptionsPerCountry_ANiceColdHour_EnglishDominant \{\cf0 22 \cf2 \}\
\\gdef \\percentTranscriptionsPerCountry_ANiceColdHour_NonNative \{\cf0 24 \cf2 \}\

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 //A nice gold hour; \
//----observed count\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\transcriptionsPerCountry_ANiceGoldHour_EnglishDominant \{\cf0 62 \cf2 \}
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\transcriptionsPerCountry_ANiceGoldHour_NonNative \{\cf0 1 \cf2 \}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
//----observed percentage\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\percentTranscriptionsPerCountry_ANiceGoldHour_EnglishDominant \{\cf0 10 \cf2 \}\
\\gdef \\percentTranscriptionsPerCountry_ANiceGoldHour_NonNative \{\cf0 0.2 \cf2 \}\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
//In ice cold hour; \
//----observed count\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\transcriptionsPerCountry_InIceColdHour_EnglishDominant \{\cf0 14 \cf2 \}
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\transcriptionsPerCountry_InIceColdHour_NonNative \{\cf0 24 \cf2 \}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
//----observed percentage\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \\gdef \\percentTranscriptionsPerCountry_InIceColdHour_EnglishDominant \{\cf0 2 \cf2 \}\
\\gdef \\percentTranscriptionsPerCountry_InIceColdHour_NonNative \{\cf0 7 \cf2 \}\

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \

\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
When comparing transcriptions from countries where English is the dominant language to those from countries where it is not, we see some interesting trends\
\
(1) The most common transcription for both is \'93an ice cold hour\'94, with 36% native-speaker transcriptions(218) and 38% non-native(134)\
(2) The second most common transcription is also the same for both (\'93a nice cold hour\'94, but it accounts for a larger percentage of the Non-native pie (24% compared to the native 22%)\
(3) The third most common transcription differs for native and non-native speakers. \
\
Native speakers transcribed \'93a nice gold hour\'94 62 times, accounting for 10% of all native transcriptions. In comparison, only one non-native speaker transcribed that phrase, for a measely 0.2% of total non-native transcriptions. This brings up an interesting data point\'97 The third most popular transcription for native speakers barely shows up at all in non-native transcriptions. There may be something about common phoneme substitution that native speakers pick up on that non-natives don\'92t: specifically, a cold/gold merger.  \
\
 The third most common transcription for non-native speakers is \'93in ice cold hour\'94, which was transcribed 24 times, and makes up 7% of non-native transcriptions.  This phrase was the fifth most common transcription for native speakers, with 14 transcriptions making up 2% of total transcriptions.  \
\
(4) The fourth most common transcription for native speakers was \'93an ice gold hour\'94, getting 3% of the total with 18 transcriptions (by 14 unique transcribers).  This phrase was not transcribed by any non-native speakers. This exhibits the same phone/phoneme substitution that we saw with a nice gold hour.\
\
The fourth (an ice cold grave) and fifth (can I spoke hour) most common phrases for non-native speakers were only transcribed by one unique worker each, and as such, are not going to be taken into serious consideration. \
\
(5) the sixth most common native-transcribed phrase was \'93an eye scold hour\'94, with 13 transcriptions from 12 unique transcribers, making up 2% of the total.\
\
\
\
\
Had people record some of those 247 different ways (which are called oronyms), and then played them back to 1200 people and had them transcribe what they heard.\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf0 PIE CHART COMPARISONS TODO:  \
[[____]] USA vs English speaking\
[[0000]] English Speaking vs Non-native\
 \
STRETCH GOALS:\
[[____]]  get phoneme set for India, and compare agains USA results, in light of the phoneme set differences.\
[[____]] word cloud of native versus non-native; hypothesis: vocabulary is larger in Native.\
[[____]] Ngram analysis\
\
}