{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue240;\red255\green255\blue255;\red85\green0\blue0;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Reference: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://kb.osu.edu/dspace/bitstream/1811/34102/1/EMR000050a-Collister-Huron.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 Comparison of word intelligibility in spoken and sung phrases}}
\f1\i\fs24 \cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li560\sa240

\f2\i0 \cf5 Lauren Collister and David Huron\
\
\
Putting together a corpus of song lyrics, they found that most of the top twenty words that occured were non-content words, which stands with our top twenty count (WHICH I NEED TO GET). However, it did contain one content word: love. The word \'93love\'94 is not found in the top 20 most common words in our corupus, suggesting that we would be better served by using a corpus of text created from song lyrics instead of general English texts.\
\
 Using this reduced sample, we created an inventory of all words used, and tallied the total number \
of appearances for each word. Table 1 shows the twenty most frequently used words in our sample. With \
the exception of the word \'93love,\'94 the remaining words are non-content words. The word \'93love\'94 is of \
particular notice. While this word is common in vocal lyrics, it is not a common word in samples of \
ordinary English speech, and so highlights the value of creating a task-specific corpus of words.\
Table. 1.   The twenty most frequently occurring words in English lyrics, as found in our database of \
English song texts.\
Word Frequency\
the 3415\
you 2296\
I 2236\
and 2160\
to 1778\
a 1733\
in 1042\
my 1000\
me 1018\
of 895\
it 780\
\
that 766\
on 739\
your 665\
be 558\
for 557\
all 534\
is 514\
love 482\
but 447\
Common words are typically one syllable in length, but our database also included many multisyllabic words. Table 2 identifies the proportions of different syllable lengths used in the sample, and gives \
some examples}