{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The Recordings Per Transcription charts show what recordings produced each transcription, and also compares the observed incidence of those transcriptions with the expected UNISYN frequency metric. The Y axis lists the transcribed phrases.  The upper X axis corresponds to the smaller, multi-colored bars. Each bar represents the number of times that a transcribed phrase was observed for a particular recording. \
The lower X axis corresponds to the large blue bars. They represent the  calculated UNISYN frequency metric. \
When you compare the bars from the two x axes, some interesting observations appear. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 An ice cold hour\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 -Most of the count on this one comes from recordings that started with an\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 A nice cold hour\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 -Most of the count on this one comes from recordings that started with a\
In this chart, we see that while most of the transcriptions of ``a nice cold hour\'92\'92 came from recordings of phrases that begin with \'91a\'92, a not inconsiderable number came from the recordings for the phrases ``an ice cold our\'92\'92 and \'91\'92an ice-cold our\'92\'92. When taken in regards to the conclusions we drew from figure ~\\ref\{
\b An ice cold hour 
\b0 our\} in section ~\\ref\{previous section\}, we can conclude that, while we appear not to be able to go from an to a, listeners can, under certain circumstances, hear an \'91an\'92 as an \'91a\'92. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 In ice cold hour\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 -Fairly equally distributed, with a bunch on \'93an ice-cold hour\'94\
This chart is for the third most common transcription, .  Transcriptions of this phrase are fairly evenly distributed among the recordings, though there\'92s a spike of them on  \'93an ice-cold hour.\'94  Additionally, the transcriptions occur a lot less frequently than the metric suggests they should\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 A nice gold hour\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 -FROM: A nye scold our, A nye scold hour, A nigh scold our\
The chart for the transcriptions of \'93\'94 show that the source recordings of those transcriptions are very specific: only the recordings og A nye scold our, A nye scold hour, and A nigh scold our produce the \'93g\'94/ \'93c\'94 substitution. In fact, all of our transcriptions that involved the word \'93gold\'94 arose from these recordings. This suggests that there is some sort of foul magic at play messing with my data.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 An ice cold dower\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 -Phoneme repetition is not dealt with in our program\
This chart shows the transcriptions for the phrase \'91an ice cold dower.\'92 This phrase features repeated phoneme deletion, in which two identical adjacent phonemes are blurred into one sound.  This can result in the listener putting two phonemes where only one exists (as in this case), or putting one phoneme where two exist.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 An eye scold hour\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 The chart for \'93\'94 is primarily interesting in that it appears more or less deterministically interpretable. The only recordings that resulted in this phrase were those for an eye scold hour or an aye scold hour. We hypothesize that this has something to do with word emphases, and suggest this for future work.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 An ice coal dower\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Check emphasese, there may be something with dower that makes it more likely to be heard right?\
This chart is notable in that all its transcriptions came from recordings that began in an and ended in dower, like the phrase itself. As in ~\\ref\{
\b An eye scold hour
\b0 \}, we suggest that the near-deterministic interpretation has something to do with emphases, and suggest this for future work.\
}