{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 System Design:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 I will be using pre-existing music-composition data formats, modified to fit my needs.  First, I will be using parts of the WEDELMUSIC music and lyrics format, with a few changes:\
I will modify the Syllable class to include two more fields: an enum 
\b emphasis
\b0 , whose values can be 
\i PRIMARY
\i0 , 
\i SECONDARY
\i0 , 
\i TERTIARY
\i0 , or 
\i NEUTRAL
\i0 ; and a string 
\b sampa
\b0 , whose value is the SAMPA representation of the syllable.\
I will create a parent class 
\b Word
\b0  for 
\b Syllable
\b0  objects that belong in the same word. \
I will (likely) not be implementing a display mechanism for the multi-bar or multi-note-per-bar functionality inherent in the design.  However, I\'92ll probably keep the functionality intact.\
Specifically, I will be focusing on implementing the following classes:\
MainScore\
SquareBrk\
Part\
Measure\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Figure
\b0  (Abstract Class)\

\b Note
\b0  (subclassed into Note1_N, where 1/N is the note duration.  EX: Note1, Note1_2, Note1_4, Note1_8, Note1_16)\

\b Rest
\b0  (similarly subclassed)\

\b Anchor
\b0  (represents a point between two 
\b Figures
\b0 , like a breath.\

\b Space
\b0  (represents a symbol that takes up space, but has no duration, like a Clef or Key Signature)\

\b Chord
\b0  (contains a group of simple 
\b Notes
\b0  with the same duration)\

\b Beam
\b0  (contains a sequence of 
\b Figures
\b0  that should have a bar drawn across the top, i.e., consecutive 
\b Notes
\b0  with a duration of 1/8 note or less.)\
Header\
Syllable\

\b HorizontalSym
\b0  (Abstract Class)
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Slur\
Tie\
Tuple\
Crescendo\
Diminuendo\
Wave\
TrillAWave\
Change8va\
Arrow\
KeySignature\
Time\
\
Overall, use-case specifications have not changed. much.  Under \'93Specifications\'94-> \'94Optimal User Functionality\'94 on the preliminary proposal doc, I\'92ve dropped the second bullet point.  This means the idea of developing multiple melodies has been removed, as well as multiple lyric phrases.}