{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sb240\pardirnatural

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Benefits of an Equation-Based Approach\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This is the approach that I started with, not so much because it was the best fit, but because it fit the medium I was using (Excel Spreadsheet).  There are, however, several reasons that an equation-based approach might be preferred.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi432\sl320\sb120\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Parallels to instrumental composition\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi720\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 The construction of instrumental music is intrinsically algorithmic and/or mathematical.  One of my side-goals with Melody Matcher was to discover a 
\i complementary
\i0  algorithm to these for  for the composition musical 
\b texts
\b0 . \
By pursuing a math-based approach, I can parallel the way that instrumental compositions are structured, and maybe even eventually incorporate my work into algorithm-based music theory.  \
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi432\sl320\sb120\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Uniform measurement of results\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi720\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 An equation will give me a concrete number that represents the fitness of a lyric.  This allows for easier comparison, and perhaps an overall fitness score for the lyrical and instrumental structure of a composition.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sb240\pardirnatural

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Downsides of an Equation-Based Approach\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 There are several aspects of an equation-based approach that are less than desirable.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi432\sl320\sb120\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Lack of atomicity\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi720\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 With an equation-based approach, I either have to address all the factors that go into lyric fitness in one monster-mega-equation, or make a bunch of smaller equations, and combine their results after computation.  Both of these are exceedingly hard to modify.  If I come to the conclusion that the phone "
\f2\b jU"
\f1\b0  needs to be categorized as a syllabic consonant instead of a semivowel, I have to figure out where in the equation I computed its value, and make sure I modify any parts of the equation that depend on "
\f2\b jU"
\f1\b0  being a semivowel. Since I've still not yet nailed down all the intricacies of how the parts of a lyric interrelate and/or contribute to the fitness of a lyrics' structure, the lack of easy modification is kind of a dealbreaker.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi432\sl320\sb120\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Ambiguous interpretation of results\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi720\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 A single number can't accurately reflect all the nuances that go into why a lyric might not be structurally sound.  For example, if Melody Matcher gave a song lyric a score of 1.33 out of 1.1, that means that it failed one or more fitness criteria.  However, there's no way to know exactly what's wrong with it.  This lack of explanation and/or reasoning makes it difficult to use Melody Matcher as a teaching tool, which is one of my ultimate goals.}