{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
The structural rules of lyric placement are important, because without them, lyrics can become muddled and/or unintelligible. For example, in the song \'93Groovin\'92 (on a Sunday Afternoon\'94, by the Young Rascals, there\'92s a part in the bridge that everyone always hears as \'93Life would be ecstasy, you an\'92 me 
\b an\'92 Leslie
\b0 \'94.  In fact, the line is \'93Life would be ecstasy, you and me 
\b endlessly
\b0 \'94.  The confusion lies with the last three syllables of the phrase.  The pronunciation of each version, if spoken normally, is as follows:\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clminw2918 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clminw4490 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 and       Les-   lie\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 end-       less-       ly\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clminw2918 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clminw4490 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 @nd   \'93lEs     li\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \'93
\b End
\b0       l@s       li\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
A \'93 preceding a syllable means that syllable is emphasized. \
\
So, in the first phrase, we see that the emphasis pattern goes something like dum-DUM-dum, where the first syllable of \'93Leslie\'94 is emphasized.  The second phrase\'92s emphasis pattern is \'93DUM-dum-dum\'94, so the first syllable of endlessly is emphasized.\
\
When words are put to music, however, the musical emphasis basically overrides the textual emphasis. Sometimes, if a previously un-emphasized syllable becomes emphasized, or a previously emphasized syllable loses its emphasis, the meaning of the phrase can change.\
\
For \'93Groovin\'92\'94, the lyrics match up to the music in the song as follows:\
\
\
Life   would be  ec-            sta-    sy,        You  an\'92  me   end-  less- ly \
\
\
In all music, the emphasis always goes on the first part of a beat.  \
\
In this case, in the first measure is emphasized for the notes that correspond to the lyrics, \'93Life\'94, \'93be\'94, \'93ec-\'94(as in ec-sta-sy)  and \'93sy\'94(again, as in ec-sta-sy) (This is a vast oversimplification, but it works for now). So, the lyrics would be emphasized as such:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Life
\b0  would 
\b be
\b0  
\b ec
\b0 -sta-
\b sy
\b0 \
\
This musical emphasis matches the spoken emphasis of the phrase, so it is intelligible as a lyric.  (Though ecstasy\'92s first syllable doesn\'92t start on the first part of beat three, it is still on the first part of beat three, and therefore still emphasized.  Alternatively, since the first part of beat two didn\'92t have a hard stop to it, the emphasis could have rolled over to the second part,  \'93ec\'94, which does have a hard stop. These are the sorts of things I need to figure out formal rules for.  I only know them by intuition right now.)\
\
In contrast, take the second measure:  the syllables \'93You\'94, \'93me\'94, and \'93less\'94 are emphasized.  This leads to conflicting musical and spoken phrasing:\uc0\u8232 \
Musical Phrasing:	
\b You
\b0  and 
\b me
\b0   end
\b less
\b0 ly\
Spoken Phrasing: 	
\b You
\b0  and 
\b me
\b0   
\b end
\b0 lessly\
	 
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
The singer is now singing the phrase, syllable by syllable, which they think of as syllable-note combinations:\
YOU and ME end LESS lee\
The singer, for his part, is doing what many singers are taught to do, to make it easier to sustain the singing of words that end with unsingable consonants: the unsingable consonant is displaced onto the front of the next word.  In this case, the consonant \'93d\'94 is not singable, so he displaces it onto the next syllable, when he can:  \'93and ME\'94 becomes \'93an   dME\'94, and \'93end LESS\'94  becomes \'93en  dLESS\'94.  So, the singer can effectively think of the sung phrase as:\
\
YOU an  dME en dLESS lee\
\
This doesn\'92t cause confusion to listeners, because they\'92re used to hearing it.  This does mean, however, that lyric placement does not provide an accurate barometer of where a word actually ends.   \
\
 In addition, the singer is singing fudging his vowels, like singers are taught to do,   so \'93and\'94 and \'93end\'94 sound almost indistinguishable.  So, really, what listeners are hearing is this:\
  YOU en dME en dLESS lee\
\
Now, the listener\'92s brain has to take this syllabic gobbldygook, and parse it into something useful.  They\'92ve currently got this mess to deal with (represented in SAMPA syllables):\
ju En dmi En dl@s li\
\
\
They parse the first part just fine, because the emphases match:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf3 you and me\cf0  En dl@s li\
\
\
But no one says endLESSly.  People say ENDlessly.  So,  the listeners don\'92t recognize it. they have to work with what they have.  They already turned one \'93En d\'94 into an \'93and\'94, so they do it again:\
you and me and l@s li\
\
Now, they\'92re just left with LESS lee.  And that fits Leslie, a proper noun that fits in context and in emphasis placement.  So, the final heard lyric is:\
\
you and me and Les- lie\
\
The misunderstanding can be traced by to improper emphasis placement.  The songwriter probably didn\'92t even think of that, and now he\'92s stuck:  a one-hit-wonder with a misunderstood song.  I bet that in interview after interview, someone asks him who Leslie is.  It\'92s probably very frustrating\'97especially since he could have just moved the word an eight note later, and it would have been understood perfectly.  That\'92s the sort of situation this program is going to help avoid.}