{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 So. I bet you're all wondering what's happening with my thesis. If so, you fit into one of 
\b these groups:
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b 1) you're working on a thesis? What's it about?\uc0\u8232 \u8232 2) oh, that melody matcher thing you've been mumbling about for the past few years? How's that work again?\u8232 \u8232 3) yeah, I know you're working on your thesis. I keep hearing you talk about all the gory details. But what does it look like?\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 4) But how do you know it really works?\uc0\u8232 \u8232 I'll be addressing group #3 today.\u8232 \u8232 As you already know, Melody matcher is an algorithm that measures inherent understand ability of a song when sung by a person with a General America accent.\u8232 \u8232 This is sort of a fudge, because the general American accent is not actually the accent that singers use while singing, nor is it the accent spoken by most americans. It's the newscaster accent, and is generally agreed upon to have come from somewhere in the midwest. \'a0It is heavy on understandability, and therefore fudges NO consonant or vowel sounds, whereas singers do this all the time. However, the alterations singers make to their phonemes while singing are not generally agrees upon, and there is no " singing accent".\u8232 \u8232 There are a few generally agreed upon rules about context -based pronunciation changes in singing:\u8232 "the": if the word 'the' is followed by a word that begins with a vowel sound, it is then sung as "thee", instead of 'thuh'\u8232 "and": this one is strange, and I'm not sure about, but it often becomes "an' "\u8232 "a": there a a few different ways this can be pronounced: "eh", "uh", or ____\u8232 Glottal stops:\u8232 Coda-pushing: it is generally agreed upon by most all singers that, when singing a word, you sing the vowel. \'a0This "vowel" can be more accurately described as the nucleus of a syllable\u8232 \u8232 Anyway! Didn't meant to get bogged down in that. You're probably winding what my thesis end product actually *looks* like.\u8232 \u8232 So, I like gardening. It's really obvious when you're doing something right with a plant, because it grows and florishes.\u8232 \u8232 Warning: this is not a perfect metaphor.\u8232 \u8232 So, for my thesis, I pretended that we live on a world where plants are nourished and grow by being fed music. \'a0Each tree feeds upon a single. \'a0The very first lyrics of the song cause the tree to begin to grow, the the tree stops growing when the song is over. \'a0You want a tall, green tree with few branches at the end, not a browning bush with way too many branches and forks. Like any good gardener, a good lyricist prunes back branches that are unwanted.\u8232 \u8232 The growth rate of the tree depends upon the tempo of the song fed into it.\u8232 \u8232 The tree splits off and creates new branches whenever a phonetic sequence can be understood in more than one way. For example, i stink, an ice cold shower. \'a0This means that the branch points must be on the phoneme level, and not on the word level.\u8232 \u8232 The tree's color will remain green if all the words in the lyrics are a good fit for their notes. If there is any cramming or bleeding, then the tree branch for that sequence will be browned, depending on the severity of the cramming/bleeding.\u8232 \u8232 How is this achieved?\u8232 \u8232 0- we must substitute and account for pronunciation variations caused by singing the words instead of speaking them. This includes:\u8232 The/a/glottal-stops/coda-pushing\u8232 1- before we break our words into individual sounds, we much break them into syllables, and check for cramming and bleeding.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\b\fs144 \cf2 \cb3 //TBC}