{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Welcome to Part 2 of the tutorial\'97you can close \'93Part 1\'94 by clicking on the triangle next to where it says \'93Part 1\'94 in the binder on the left. You can also hide the Inspector by clicking on the blue disc icon in the toolbar again.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 You have now learned some of the fundamental features of Scrivener. Now it\'92s time to move on to some of the organisational features. Firstly, notice that this document is actually a folder in the binder. There is no real difference between text and folder documents aside from their icons, and the fact that folder documents always have \'93disclosure triangles\'94 next to them in the binder (and other outline views) regardless of whether or not they have anything inside them. Note that the folder icon for this document (\'93Part 2: Organisation\'94) has a little text icon in its corner. This means that this folder contains text - the text you are reading now. (It does not have anything to do with the fact that it also has text documents inside it, such as \'93Step 7\'94 and so on.) The other major difference between folders and text documents is the default way they get viewed when you open them. We\'92ll come to that in Step 7.\
\
In fact, you can convert a folder document into a text document and vice versa very easily. Click on \'93Part 2: Organisation\'94 in the binder to make sure it is selected, and then go to Documents > Convert > To File in the main menu. The folder icon changes into a text stack (the stack indicates that the text document has subdocuments). If you go back to the Documents > Convert menu, you will see that now you have the option of converting it back to a folder - do that now. The idea behind this flexibility is that you can choose to have different visual indicators for different levels of organisation, and also you don\'92t have to plan in advance how you structure your project, because if you end up using a text document as a container for other files, you can always convert it to a folder later, and vice versa.\
\
To create new documents, click \'93Add\'94 in the toolbar. If you hold the add button down for half a second, a menu appears that lets you choose which kind of document you would like to add. You can also add documents via the Project menu, footer views and contextual menus. Hitting enter in the binder, outliner or corkboard will also create a new document (although this behaviour can be turned off via the Preferences).\
\
Okay, move on to Step 7 when you\'92re ready (you will need to expand \'93Part 2\'94 by clicking on the disclosure triangle next to it). Or go get a cup of tea and a biscuit.}