{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 As a writer, the chances are that you will on occasion be nervous about committing changes to your text. This is what the \'93Snapshots\'94 feature is for. Before embarking on the editing of a document, you can click on \'93Take Snapshot\'94 (cmd-5) in the Documents > Snapshots menu. You will hear the sound of a camera shutter which indicates that the snapshot has been taken. Let\'92s try that now\'85\
\
Once you have taken a snapshot, you can edit your document safe in the knowledge that you can return to the old version any time you so wish. Click on the \'93Snapshots\'94 button (the one with the picture of a camera on it) in the inspector footer bar to see what I mean (you can also switch directly to the Snapshots pane and have the inspector open if necessary by going to Documents > Snapshots > Show Snapshots). The inspector now shows a list of snapshots at the top, which should consist of the one you took and one I took while writing the first version of this tutorial back in 2006. Clicking on a snapshot in the list reveals its text in the lower part of the inspector. You can restore an older version of your text by selecting the version you want from the list and then clicking on \'93Roll Back\'94 at the top (at which point, you will be given the option of taking another snapshot of your current version, just in case you forgot).\
\
If you wish to know what you have changed in the document since the snapshot was taken, click on \'93Compare\'94. Do that now - select the snapshot that was taken on the 23
\fs18 \super rd
\fs26 \nosupersub  August 2006 and click on \'93Compare\'94. The text in the inspector will change to show what has been added or removed. Text that has been added to the document since the snapshot was taken appears underlined and in blue; text that has been deleted appears struck out and in red. Note that the comparison only shows 
\i textual
\i0  changes - it does not show changes to the formatting.\
\
Click on the left and right arrows at the top of the inspector, next to the \'93Roll Back\'94 button, to navigate between the changes.\
\
You can alter the granularity (level of detail) of the comparison by clicking on the downwards-pointing arrow next to the \'93Compare\'94 button (which should now read \'93Original\'94, because clicking on it again will switch back to showing the text of the snapshot without any comparisons). Often you will find that changing the granularity will give you different results on different documents, depending on the scope of the edits. You will usually get the best results by leaving \'93By Paragraph\'94 ticked but playing with \'93By Clause\'94 and \'93By Word\'94.\
\
You can also compare the differences between two snapshots by selecting two different snapshots in the list and clicking on \'93Compare\'94: if one snapshot is selected, clicking on \'93Compare\'94 compares it with the current version of the text; if two snapshots are selected, they are compared against each other.\
\
If you ever want more space to read through a snapshot - if you find the inspector too cramped - you can drag a snapshot from the list in the inspector onto the header view (see Step 2) of the main editor to load it there. If you hold the Option key down while dragging it, the snapshot will show comparisons to the current version of the text when loaded into the editor.\
\
So: Snapshots are very useful for keeping old versions of your text around and for checking what you have changed.\
\
Now let\'92s move onto Step 5h for information on the comments and footnotes pane.}