{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Okay, so you imported all your work into Scrivener. But you had a lot of long documents and now you want to chop them up so that you can experiment with moving the various parts around. No problem. The Documents menu features Split > At Selection and Split > with Selection as Title. These features allow you to chop up existing documents very easily and quickly. With \'93Split at Selection\'94, you simply click inside a text document so that the cursor is at the point where you want to split the document. Selecting this menu option will split the document into two at the cursor point.\
\
\'93Split with Selection as Title\'94 works in much the same way, except you select a range of text before clicking on it. The selected text will become the title of the newly-created document. This is useful, for instance, if you have a long document containing several chapters each with a title you want to use as the document title.\
\
You can also merge documents. Selecting several documents in the binder and then choosing Documents > Merge will merge the selected documents into one (their meta-data\'97the stuff that appears in the inspector\'97will be merged too).\
\
Next we\'92ll look at some of the text options available in Scrivener.}