{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Baskerville;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 This has been a fairly thorough tour of all of the main features of Scrivener. You probably won\'92t use half of the features you\'92ve just learned about for some time - in fact, on a daily basis, you will probably only use the most basic features of writing in the editor, creating new documents, and moving documents around in the binder. Everything in Scrivener gets out of your way until you need it - but at least you know what\'92s available and have a good idea of what you can do.\
\
There\'92s plenty of other stuff in there, too. For instance, I neglected to mention the project targets and statistics features in the Project menu, which you may well use frequently if you need to to write to a particular length. They are fairly self-explanatory, though, so just try them out.\
\
What else? Well, once again, remember that Scrivener expects you to put everything that you want to export as part of your manuscript (okay, typescript for the pedants) inside the Draft folder. And remember that Scrivener is really about \'93hammering out\'94 that draft; it is not a word processor or full page layout program, so at some point\'97unless you just want a very basic manuscript\'97you may well want to move your work into a word processor for final formatting.\
\
Experiment! You should be able to work out the rest by playing with the program. If you get stuck, be sure to check out the comprehensive Scrivener Help from the Help menu. If you still have a problem, check out the FAQ on our wiki, or take a look at some of our tutorial videos on the web page:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.literatureandlatte.com/wiki"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.literatureandlatte.com/wiki}}\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.literatureandlatte.com/videos.php"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.literatureandlatte.com/videos.php}}\
\
And of course, if you are still baffled, post a question on the user forums!\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.literatureandlatte.com/forum"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.literatureandlatte.com/forum}}\
\
Likewise, if you encounter any bugs or glitches, no matter how small\'97and especially if you experience a crash\'97please post to the forums or e-mail us at support@literatureandlatte.com.\
\
I hope you enjoy using Scrivener and find it a useful tool, and offer my heartfelt thanks to you for choosing Scrivener (or considering it) as the tool for your own writing.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1\fs36 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 N
\fs27 EXT
\fs36  S
\fs27 TEPS
\fs36 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \ulnone You are now ready to begin your own project - go to File > New Project to get going. Happy writing!}