{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx1040\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 At this point, we\'92ve covered all of the major features of Scrivener. If you haven\'92t done so already, then soon you are going to want to create your own project so that you can start work. Generally you will want a separate Scrivener project for each writing project you are working on. To create a new project, select \'93New Project\'85\'94 from the File menu, which will open the project templates chooser panel. From there, you can choose a project type from one of the categories (novel, screenplay, thesis and so on). Once you\'92ve done so, click on \'93Choose\'85\'94 to specify a location at which to save the project. Scrivener projects have the file extension \'93scriv\'94 and act just like any other file - you can double-click on them in the Finder to open them, or choose to open an existing project file via the File > Open\'85 menu.\
\
Note that the \'93Blank\'94 project type is the basis for all other project types. That is, all the other project templates were created by starting from a blank project, adding some documents and changing the settings relevant for the project type, and then saving the resulting project as a template. If you find that none of the existing templates are quite right for the sort of writing you do, you can create your own project templates in the same way, like this:\
\
\pard\tx440\li440\fi-440\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 1)	Create a new project - either from the Blank template or from any other template - and edit it so that it contains all the elements and settings you will want in a new project whenever it is created from your template.\
2)	Select \'93Save As Template\'85\'94 from the File menu.\
3)	From the \'93Save As Template\'94 sheet that appears, enter a title and description for the new template, and choose a category and icon, then click on \'93OK\'94.\
4)	Go to File > New From Template\'85 You will find the template you just created available as the basis for new projects. At this point you can delete the project from which you created the template, if you wish.\
\pard\tx1040\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Okay, on to Step 23, the \'93And Finally\'85\'94 bit.}