{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx1080\fi560\slleading120\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 We\'92ve looked at how to split the editor so that you can view more than one document at the same time. The main window limits you to two editors, because of the way they interact with one another (and for space reasons), but sometimes you may wish to have more than two documents open at the same time - and this is what QuickReference panels are for.\
QuickReference panels are Scrivener\'92s internal variation on Mac OS X\'92s Quick Look feature. They allow you quickly to open, view and edit the contents of any document in the project. Let\'92s try opening a couple now.\
We\'92ll start by opening this document in a QuickReference panel so that we can keep it open while we open some others. Click on the \'93QuickRef\'94 icon in the toolbar, and then resize the window that appears as you wish, and scroll to the bottom of its text.\
\'85\
Right, you should now be reading this document inside the QuickReference panel. Next, go to the Window menu and select \'93Float QuickReference Panels\'94. This will make it so that QuickReference panels always  stay open and on top of the main window as we open other documents. Now click on \'93Alhambra\'94 in the Research folder of the binder and then hit the space bar.\
You should now have a second QuickReference panel open, this one with an image in it.\
Now, go to View > QuickReference > Research > spacewalk_info. Now you should have a PDF file open in a separate window too.\
Note that you can change the label and status associated with the document using the pop-up buttons in the top corners of the Quick Reference panel. You can also view the synopsis, notes and other meta-data associated with the document using the pop-up button in the bottom-right of the window, which currently says \'93None\'94. Click on that button in this window and select \'93Notes\'94 to see what I mean.\
You can therefore use QuickReference panels to refer to other documents while you write, and they work great with composition mode too.\
Let\'92s return to where we were in the binder. Make sure this QuickReference panel has the focus (click into it if you are not sure) and then select \'93Reveal in Binder\'94 from the View menu. Once you\'92ve done that, close all of the QuickReference panels and move on to Step 13.}