{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 You have just switched between documents. You might use different documents for different chapters, different scenes, different ideas, articles, characters, whatever you want. There are other ways of switching between documents, too. Another one you will use frequently is the header view. See that bar at the top of the text, the one that has the arrows on the left of it and says \'93Step 2: Header View\'94 in it? Well, that is the header view (which is sometimes also referred to as the \'93header bar\'94). You can rename the document by clicking into the title of the header view, and there are several options available in a menu if you click on the icon next to the title.\
The arrows on the left of the header view that point left and right are the history navigation buttons and work much like Safari\'92s navigation arrows - they allow you step back and forth through the documents you have had open in the editor. The white up and down arrows on the right of the header bar step through the contents of the binder sequentially. To see the difference, try the following:\
\
\pard\tx500\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li500\fi-500\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \'95	Click on the \'93Alhambra\'94 image document in the Research folder again and then click on the left arrow in the header view. You will be returned to this document, because this was the one you had open last.\
\'95	Click on the right arrow and you will be returned to the \'93Alhambra\'94 image document again. (Make sure you come back here afterwards though!)\
\'95	Now, with this document open, click on the down arrow on the right and then click on the up arrow again to return here. Note how the down arrow takes you to the next document in the binder, whereas the right arrow takes you to the next document in the navigation history.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
While we\'92re here, note that the selection highlight in the binder does not necessarily follow what is being displayed in the main editor\'97if you change the contents of the editor using the navigation arrows, for instance, the selection in the binder will not change. You can thus navigate around using the header view without losing track of the original document on which you were working in the binder. Note however that the up/down arrows 
\i do
\i0  affect binder selection because they are intended as an alternative way of navigating through the binder contents.\
\
 Another useful way of switching documents is to drag a document from the binder into a header view. Try this now\'97grab the document entitled \'93Step 3: Footer View\'94 on the left and drag it into the header view above. The navigation bar will turn grey, and when you let go the document will change\'85}