{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 As well as Label and Status, you can also assign keywords to your documents. Keywords are useful for adding arbitrary tags to documents that you can use when searching. So, for instance, you could add keywords for characters that occur in a scene, the location a scene takes place, the theme, authors referenced, or anything else (or you can just ignore keywords completely). You can add keywords by clicking on the \'93+\'94 button, or by hitting enter while another keyword is selected. You can also assign keywords via the keywords panel. Open that now by clicking on the \'93Keywords\'94 button in the toolbar (the black box with the key inside it).\
\
A translucent black panel will appear. This shows all of the keywords that you have created or assigned to documents so far. You can also create keywords inside this panel and drag them to the keywords table in the Inspector. You can change the colour associated with a keyword by double-clicking on the colour chip in the keywords panel. (Another way of assigning keywords is by dragging them onto documents in the binder or the outliner and corkboard views that we will look at later, or by dragging them into the header view. You can assign keywords to multiple documents at once by selecting the documents in the binder and then dragging the keywords from the keywords panel onto the selection.)\
\
Try dragging the keyword entitled \'93Assign this one\'94 to the keywords table.\
\
When assigning keywords from the panel, you can optionally assign the groups to which they belong as well. To see this in action, click on the triangle next to \'93Characters\'94 in the black keywords panel to reveal the names of some characters. If you dragged the name of one of these characters to the keywords pane in the inspector, only the name of the character would get assigned. However, try holding down the Option key whilst dragging \'93John\'94 to the keywords pane in the inspector. Note how not only the keyword \'93John\'94 gets added, but also the name of its group, \'93Characters\'94.\
\
A quick way of searching for documents that have been assigned particular keywords is to select the keywords you want to search for in the keywords panel and then click on the \'93Search\'94 button at the bottom. (If you hold down the Option key, the \'93Search\'94 button will change to \'93Search All\'94, which will search for the selected keywords wherever they occur in the project, including text, notes and so on, rather than limiting the search to the keywords associated with documents.)\
\
Now click on \'935f: Custom Meta-Data\'94 in the binder.}