{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Baskerville;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Now we\'92ll look at the \'93Comments & Footnotes\'94 pane - don\'92t worry about clicking on the button in the inspector footer bar just yet though (for your reference, though, the \'93Comments & Footnotes\'94 button is the one with the \'93n.\'94 inside a square speech bubble).\
\
Comments and footnotes in Scrivener work a little like comments in Word, Nisus Writer or Pages, but they\'92re not exactly the same. Let\'92s take a look at them.\
\
For a start, click on the yellow highlighted text in the sentence below:\
\
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\qc\pardirnatural

\f1\fs32 \cf0 This sentence has a comment attached.
\f0\fs26 \
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Note how the inspector automatically switches to the Comments & Footnotes pane, and the comment associated with the text gets highlighted.\
\
Next, click on the grey footnote directly below the comment in the footnote.\
\
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\qc\pardirnatural

\f1\fs32 \cf0 This sentence has a footnote attached.
\f0\fs26 \
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
See how clicking on the note in the inspector automatically selects the text associated with it in the main editor?\
\
If you click on a note in the inspector, the editor will automatically scroll to the position in the text where the note has been placed. This allows you to use the comments and footnotes to navigate the text, so that they act like bookmarks in a way, too. Try scrolling to the bottom of this document, and then clicking the comment to return to the top.\
\
\
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs36 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 A
\fs27 DDING
\fs36  C
\fs27 OMMENTS
\fs36  
\fs27 AND
\fs36  F
\fs27 OOTNOTES
\fs36 \
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \ulnone Let\'92s try adding some comments and footnotes. There are a couple of ways of doing this. First, select some of the text in the following sentence:\
\
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\qc\pardirnatural

\f1\fs32 \cf0 Select some of the text in this sentence.
\f0\fs26 \
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Once you\'92ve selected a word or two in the above sentence, either click on \'93Comment\'94 in the toolbar, the \'93+\'94 button in the top \'93Comments & Footnotes\'94 bar in the inspector, or hit shift-cmd-8. A new comment will be created in the inspector and it will be selected ready for editing - add some text. Once you\'92ve finished typing in the comment, hit the Escape key to return the focus to the main editor.\
\
Alternatively, you can just click into or after a word to add a comment or footnote to it. This time, just click into the word \'93commented\'94 below so that the blinking insertion point (or caret) is somewhere inside it:\
\
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\qc\pardirnatural

\f1\fs32 \cf0 This sentence will be commented.
\f0\fs26 \
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Again, click on \'93Comment\'94 in the toolbar, the \'93+\'94 button in the inspector, or hit shift-cmd-8. Note how the whole word \'93commented\'94 gets a comment associated with it.\
\
Let\'92s try it with a footnote too. This time, place the cursor right at the end of this sentence, after the full stop:\
\
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\qc\pardirnatural

\f1\fs32 \cf0 This sentence will have a footnote after it when exported or printed.
\f0\fs26 \
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
This time, click on the \'93+fn\'94 button in the inspector (note that you can add a \'93Footnote\'94 icon to the toolbar by using View > Customize Toolbar\'85, and although there is no default keyboard shortcut associated with this action you can add one using the OS X system preferences).\
\
Note how the footnote gets attached to the word \'93printed\'94 and the full stop after it. It generally doesn\'92t matter where you attach comments, because they are usually for your own (or collaborators\'92) reference only, but with footnotes you should always ensure that the footnote link the (the grey highlight) ends at exactly the place you want the footnote number to appear when printed or exported. So, because we associated the footnote with the word \'93printed\'94 and the footnote ends at, but includes, the period at the end of the sentence, the footnote number in the exported or printed text will appear straight after the full stop, which is usually what you would want.\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2\fs36 \cf0 \ul C
\fs27 HANGING
\fs36  
\fs27 THE
\fs36  C
\fs27 OLOUR
\fs36  
\fs27 OF
\fs36  C
\fs27 OMMENTS
\fs36 \
\pard\tx360\fi560\slleading120\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \ulnone You can change the colour of comments by ctrl-clicking on a comment (or comments) in the inspector. The contextual menu offers a choice of default colours, or you can open the colour panel to choose a custom colour. You can also select a comment and hit shift-cmd-C to open the colour panel directly and change the colour that way. (Note that you cannot change the colour of footnotes, which use a single colour to differentiate them from comments, although you can choose the colour for all footnotes in the \'93Appearance\'94 pane of the Preferences.\
\
The contextual (ctrl-click) menu also allows you to convert comments to footnotes and vice versa, and to revert comments or footnotes to their default formatting (you can set the default fonts in the Preferences).\
\
If you have a lot of comments, you can collapse individual comments and footnotes by clicking on the disclosure triangle (the downward-pointing arrow) in the top-left of each comment box. (You can also collapse or expand all using cmd-0 or cmd-9 when the focus is in the inspector.)\
\
Comments and footnotes are thus tucked away in the inspector until you need them. When you come to export or print - which we\'92ll come to later - you have a lot of control over how comments and footnotes get included in the document. For instance, you could have all comments removed but footnotes included as proper footnotes, or you could have comments exported as footnotes and footnotes exported as endnotes. But if that sounds complicated, it\'92s not something you need to worry about right now - just know that if you want to make notes on your document, or add footnotes, this is one way to do it.\
\
Right, onto \'93Step 6: End of Part One\'94!}