{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Baskerville;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red230\green255\blue79;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 You may notice that as with the history navigation buttons, dragging a document into the header bar does not affect the binder selection. If you ever find that after navigating through multiple documents you are not sure where the current document is located in the binder, you can simply use View > Reveal in Binder (Opt-Cmd-R) to force the binder to show you where you are. Try that now.\
\
Okay, so let\'92s get familiar with the editor. At the bottom of the window, you can see a grey bar containing a pop-up button with a percentage in it (100% by default) and a live word and character count. This is the \'93footer view\'94. Try typing something in the yellow area below:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\pardirnatural
\cf0 \cb2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\pardirnatural
\cf0 \cb1 \
Done that? You will see that the word and character count in the footer view changes as you type. Now try changing the percentage in the popup-button at the bottom, too (click on it and select a new percentage)\'97you will see that you can make the text bigger or smaller; useful for tired eyes.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\pardirnatural

\f1\fs36 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 S
\fs27 CRIPTWRITING
\fs36  M
\fs27 ODE
\f0\fs26 \ulnone \
The footer view will change depending on what you are viewing inside the document. For instance, if you are typing a script (such as a movie screenplay), the footer view will give you information on the various script elements. Try selecting Format > Scriptwriting > Script Mode - Screenplay from the main menu now. The word and character count will disappear and you will see another pop-up menu appear on the right saying \'93General Text\'94 (this just means that the currently selected text isn\'92t recognised as a part of a screenplay). Click into the text on the line below:\
\
Click into this text.\
\
Now try selecting different elements from the pop-up menu on the right of the footer view. You will see that the above text automatically gets reformatted to the script element you selected, and the footer view will show what will happen if you press the tab or enter keys (which will move you to the next script element). Note that you can hit Shift-Cmd-Y to bring up that menu automatically and then hit one of the keys specified in the menu to select an element without taking your hands off the keyboard (you can also use Opt-Cmd and the number keys to change elements).\
Scriptwriting mode is saved on a document-by-document basis, so you can switch between documents that use script formatting and regular text documents. The icons of documents in the binder that use scriptwriting mode are yellow so that you can easily tell them apart from other text documents.\
Right, let\'92s return to normal prose mode now - select Format > Scriptwriting > Script Mode - Screenplay again to deselect screenplay mode.\
\

\f1\fs36 \ul N
\fs27 OTE
\fs36 :
\f0\fs26 \ulnone \
If you ever find that the word and character count has disappeared from the footer bar, it is most likely because you have accidentally switched into scriptwriting mode, so even if you\'92re not writing a script it\'92s a good idea to familiarise yourself with how to enter or leave scriptwriting mode, as described above.\
\

\f1\fs36 \ul O
\fs27 THER
\fs36  F
\fs27 ILES
\f0\fs26 \ulnone \
For PDF files, the footer view allows you to navigate between the pages. Click on \'93spacewalk_info\'94 in the Research folder to test this out, and then come back here by clicking on the \'93back\'94 arrow in the header view.\
\
All good so far, I hope. Now let\'92s familiarise ourselves with some other basic features. Click on \'93Step 4: Composition Mode\'94 in the binder.}