{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\slleading120\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Composition Mode is a very nice feature for blocking everything else out while you write. I\'92m not going to pretend it\'92s innovative or anything\'97I think Blue-Tec (now called The Soulmen), the creators of Ulysses, were the first to implement something like this for a text editor\'97but it is very handy. Either hit Opt-Cmd-F or click on \'93Compose\'94 in the toolbar above \'96 do it now!\
\
You should now be in composition mode\'97it\'92s just you and your text. (\'93Composition Mode\'94 is essentially a full screen mode, but we call it \'93Composition Mode\'94 to avoid confusion with OS X Lion\'92s full screen feature, which Scrivener also supports.)\
\
Some things you need to know about composition mode:\
\
1) Move your mouse to the bottom of the screen. You will see that a control panel appears, similar to the one in iPhoto. From here you can change the text scale, set the position and width of the \'93paper\'94 (the text column), fade the background in and out and view the word and character counts of the document. There are also buttons for displaying the keywords panel and Inspector (we won\'92t go into that right now, though, as we have yet to talk about keywords and notes\'97come back and try them out once you\'92ve gone through the rest of the tutorial) and for exiting composition mode. You can also hit Opt-Cmd-F or the Escape key to exit composition mode.\
\
2) You can only enter composition mode for text documents.\
\
3) By default, composition mode uses \'93typewriter\'94 scrolling (another Ulysses first, I believe). This simply means that as you type, the text will remain in the centre of the screen vertically so that you don\'92t have to stare at the bottom of the screen all the time. You can turn this off via Format > Options > Typewriter Scrolling (Ctrl-Cmd-T), and you can also turn it on for the main editor if you wish.\
\
4) You can customise the look of composition mode. You can use the Appearance pane of the Preferences to change the background colours and you can change the colour of the text in composition mode via the Compose pane of the Preferences (so you could set it up to have a retro green-text-on-black-background look, for instance). You can even add a background image, if you want, by going to View > Composition Mode Backdrop.\
\
Okay, let\'92s move on to \'93Step 5: The Inspector\'94 while still in composition mode. To do so, move the cursor to the top of the screen so that the menu bar appears. Then, from the View menu, choose Go To > Draft > Part 1: Basics > Step 5: The Inspector.}