{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb240\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Melody Matcher \
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qc

\fs32 \cf0 Project Proposal\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 Jennifer Hughes\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \page  TOC \\o "1-4" \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb120\pardirnatural

\f2\b\fs22 \cf0 MELODY MATCHER	 PAGEREF _TOC197578258 \\H 1
\fs24 \

\fs22 ABSTRACT (SYSTEM PURPOSE AND TASKS TO BE PERFORMED):	 PAGEREF _TOC197578259 \\H 6
\fs24 \

\fs22 USAGE DOMAIN AND ENVIRONMENT:	 PAGEREF _TOC197578260 \\H 6
\fs24 \

\fs22 COMPARISON TO EXISTING SYSTEMS:	 PAGEREF _TOC197578261 \\H 9
\fs24 \

\fs22 SPECIFICATION:	 PAGEREF _TOC197578262 \\H 9
\fs24 \

\fs22 USER FEEDBACK:	 PAGEREF _TOC197578263 \\H 10
\fs24 \

\fs22 SYSTEM DESIGN:	 PAGEREF _TOC197578264 \\H 12
\fs24 \

\fs22 PROTOTYPE AND IMPLEMENTATION	 PAGEREF _TOC197578265 \\H 12
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li240\sl360\pardirnatural

\b0\fs22 \cf0 S
\fs18 YLLABLE
\fs22  S
\fs18 TRUCTURE
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578266 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  12
\fs24 \

\fs22 L
\fs18 ENGTH
\fs22  
\fs18 AND
\fs22  W
\fs18 EIGHT
\fs22  
\fs18 OF
\fs22  I
\fs18 NDIVIDUAL
\fs22  P
\fs18 HONES
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578267 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  12
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li480\sl360\pardirnatural

\i\fs22 \cf0 Vowels	 PAGEREF _Toc197578268 \\h 12
\fs24 \

\fs22 Consonants	 PAGEREF _Toc197578269 \\h 13
\fs24 \

\fs22 Calculating Consonant Phone Length	 PAGEREF _Toc197578270 \\h 14
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li240\sl360\pardirnatural

\i0\fs22 \cf0 F
\fs18 ULL
\fs22  T
\fs18 ABLE
\fs22  
\fs18 OF
\fs22  P
\fs18 HONE
\fs22  M
\fs18 AKEUP
\fs22  
\fs18 AND
\fs22  L
\fs18 ENGTH
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578271 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  16
\fs24 \

\fs22 T
\fs18 HIS
\fs22  
\fs18 PAGE
\fs22  
\fs18 WAS
\fs22  
\fs18 INTENTIONALLY
\fs22  
\fs18 LEFT
\fs22  
\fs18 BLANK
\fs22  
\fs18 BECAUSE
\fs22  W
\fs18 ORD
\fs22  
\fs18 DOESN
\fs22 \'92
\fs18 T
\fs22  
\fs18 LIKE
\fs22  
\fs18 ME
\fs22  
\fs18 BEING
\fs22  
\fs18 TABLE
\fs22 -
\fs18 HAPPY
\fs22 .	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578272 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  17
\fs24 \

\fs22 S
\fs18 TRUCTURE
\fs22  
\fs18 OF
\fs22  
\fs18 A
\fs22  S
\fs18 YLLABLE
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578273 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  18
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\sl360\pardirnatural

\fs18 \cf0 Examples	 PAGEREF _Toc197578274 \\h 19
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb120\pardirnatural

\b\fs22 \cf0 SYSTEM DESIGN:	 PAGEREF _TOC197578275 \\H 25
\fs24 \

\fs22 PROTOTYPE AND IMPLEMENTATION	 PAGEREF _TOC197578276 \\H 26
\fs24 \

\fs22 DATA FORMAT	 PAGEREF _TOC197578277 \\H 27
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li240\sl360\pardirnatural

\b0\fs22 \cf0 F
\fs18 ICKLE
\fs22  P
\fs18 HONES
\fs22  
\fs18 IN
\fs22  
\fs18 THE
\fs22  C
\fs18 ODA
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578278 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  32
\fs24 \

\fs22 C
\fs18 ALCULATING
\fs22  W
\fs18 EIGHT
\fs22 /L
\fs18 ENGTH
\fs22  
\fs18 OF
\fs22  I
\fs18 NDEPENDENT
\fs22  S
\fs18 YLLABLES
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578279 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  33
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li480\sl360\pardirnatural

\i\fs22 \cf0 Psuedo Code Formula for Determining Semi-Stand-Alone Weight	 PAGEREF _Toc197578280 \\h 33
\fs24 \

\fs22 Actual Excel Formula:	 PAGEREF _Toc197578281 \\h 33
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li240\sl360\pardirnatural

\i0\fs22 \cf0 C
\fs18 ALCULATING
\fs22  L
\fs18 ENGTH
\fs22  
\fs18 OF
\fs22  S
\fs18 YLLABLES
\fs22  
\fs18 IN
\fs22  R
\fs18 ELATION
\fs22  
\fs18 TO
\fs22  E
\fs18 ACH
\fs22  O
\fs18 THER
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578282 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  36
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li480\sl360\pardirnatural

\i\fs22 \cf0 Psuedo Code Formula for Determining Syllable \'93fit\'94 with the music.	 PAGEREF _Toc197578283 \\h 42
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li240\sl360\pardirnatural

\i0\fs22 \cf0 P
\fs18 ATTERNS
\fs22  
\fs18 FOR
\fs22  M
\fs18 USICAL
\fs22  E
\fs18 MPHASES
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578284 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  43
\fs24 \

\fs22 E
\fs18 FFECT
\fs22  
\fs18 OF
\fs22  N
\fs18 OTE
\fs22  I
\fs18 NTERVALS
\fs22  
\fs18 ON
\fs22  M
\fs18 USICAL
\fs22  E
\fs18 MPHASES
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578285 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  
\b E
\fs18 RROR
\fs22 ! B
\fs18 OOKMARK
\fs22  
\fs18 NOT
\fs22  
\fs18 DEFINED
\fs22 .
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb120\pardirnatural

\b\fs22 \cf0 PARSIBLE PHONETIC DICTIONARY	 PAGEREF _TOC197578286 \\H 56
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li240\sl360\pardirnatural

\b0\fs22 \cf0 P
\fs18 ARSABLE
\fs22  D
\fs18 ICTIONARY
\fs22 	 PAGEREF _T
\fs18 OC
\fs22 197578287 \\
\fs18 H
\fs22  56
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb120\pardirnatural

\b\fs22 \cf0 FINAL PHONETIC DICTIONARY CHOICE	 PAGEREF _TOC197578288 \\H 58
\fs24 \

\fs22 TIMELINE:	 PAGEREF _TOC197578289 \\H 75
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li480\sl360\pardirnatural

\i\b0\fs22 \cf0 (Modified)	 PAGEREF _Toc197578290 \\h 75
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\i0 \cf0 \
\
\
\page So. I bet you're all wondering what's happening with my thesis. If so, you fit into one of 
\b these groups:
\b0 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b 1) you're working on a thesis? What's it about?\uc0\u8232 \u8232 2) oh, that melody matcher thing you've been mumbling about for the past few years? How's that work again?\u8232 \u8232 3) yeah, I know you're working on your thesis. I keep hearing you talk about all the gory details. But what does it look like?\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 4) But how do you know it really works?\uc0\u8232 \u8232 I'll be addressing group #3 today.\u8232 \u8232 As you already know, Melody matcher is an algorithm that measures inherent understand ability of a song when sung by a person with a General America accent.\u8232 \u8232 This is sort of a fudge, because the general American accent is not actually the accent that singers use while singing, nor is it the accent spoken by most americans. It's the newscaster accent, and is generally agreed upon to have come from somewhere in the midwest. \'a0It is heavy on understandability, and therefore fudges NO consonant or vowel sounds, whereas singers do this all the time. However, the alterations singers make to their phonemes while singing are not generally agrees upon, and there is no " singing accent".\u8232 \u8232 There are a few generally agreed upon rules about context -based pronunciation changes in singing:\u8232 "the": if the word 'the' is followed by a word that begins with a vowel sound, it is then sung as "thee", instead of 'thuh'\u8232 "and": this one is strange, and I'm not sure about, but it often becomes "an' "\u8232 "a": there a a few different ways this can be pronounced: "eh", "uh", or ____\u8232 Glottal stops:\u8232 Coda-pushing: it is generally agreed upon by most all singers that, when singing a word, you sing the vowel. \'a0This "vowel" can be more accurately described as the nucleus of a syllable\u8232 \u8232 Anyway! Didn't meant to get bogged down in that. You're probably winding what my thesis end product actually *looks* like.\u8232 \u8232 So, I like gardening. It's really obvious when you're doing something right with a plant, because it grows and florishes.\u8232 \u8232 Warning: this is not a perfect metaphor.\u8232 \u8232 So, for my thesis, I pretended that we live on a world where plants are nourished and grow by being fed music. \'a0Each tree feeds upon a single. \'a0The very first lyrics of the song cause the tree to begin to grow, the the tree stops growing when the song is over. \'a0You want a tall, green tree with few branches at the end, not a browning bush with way too many branches and forks. Like any good gardener, a good lyricist prunes back branches that are unwanted.\u8232 \u8232 The growth rate of the tree depends upon the tempo of the song fed into it.\u8232 \u8232 The tree splits off and creates new branches whenever a phonetic sequence can be understood in more than one way. For example, i stink, an ice cold shower. \'a0This means that the branch points must be on the phoneme level, and not on the word level.\u8232 \u8232 The tree's color will remain green if all the words in the lyrics are a good fit for their notes. If there is any cramming or bleeding, then the tree branch for that sequence will be browned, depending on the severity of the cramming/bleeding.\u8232 \u8232 How is this achieved?\u8232 \u8232 0- we must substitute and account for pronunciation variations caused by singing the words instead of speaking them. This includes:\u8232 The/a/glottal-stops/coda-pushing\u8232 1- before we break our words into individual sounds, we much break them into syllables, and check for cramming and bleeding.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\b\fs144 \cf1 \cb0 //TBC\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \page \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Abstract (System purpose and tasks to be performed):\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 This project aims to facilitate semi-automated composition of melody and accompanying lyrics, by way of matching the musical emphases of a piece with the textual emphases of the lyrical phrases.\'a0The program will ultimately rely upon user input for "fitness" criteria, but will initially match lyrics with melodies based upon some rules.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Usage Domain and Environment:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
This program will be used as a compositional aid by anyone who wants to write songs and make them sound good, technically.  Its should allow the song writer to focus on more subjective criteria of what makes a song \'93good\'94, because it will make the structural rules of lyric composition immediately apparent.  The first version of this will probably be only for users that already understand the structural rules, unfortunately, because the composer must be able to understand that there IS a need to properly place lyrics in songs.  \
\
The structural rules of lyric placement are important, because without them, lyrics can become muddled and/or unintelligible. For example, in the song \'93Groovin\'92 (on a Sunday Afternoon\'94, by the Young Rascals, there\'92s a part in the bridge that everyone always hears as \'93Life would be ecstasy, you an\'92 me 
\b an\'92 Leslie
\b0 \'94.  In fact, the line is \'93Life would be ecstasy, you and me 
\b endlessly
\b0 \'94.  The confusion lies with the last three syllables of the phrase.  The pronunciation of each version, if spoken normally, is as follows:\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clminw2918 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clminw4490 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 and       Les-   lie\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 end-       less-       ly\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clminw2918 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clminw4490 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 @nd   \'93lEs     li\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \'93
\b End
\b0       l@s       li\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
A \'93 preceding a syllable means that syllable is emphasized. \
\
So, in the first phrase, we see that the emphasis pattern goes something like dum-DUM-dum, where the first syllable of \'93Leslie\'94 is emphasized.  The second phrase\'92s emphasis pattern is \'93DUM-dum-dum\'94, so the first syllable of endlessly is emphasized.\
\
When words are put to music, however, the musical emphasis basically overrides the textual emphasis. Sometimes, if a previously un-emphasized syllable becomes emphasized, or a previously emphasized syllable loses its emphasis, the meaning of the phrase can change.\
\
For \'93Groovin\'92\'94, the lyrics match up to the music in the song as follows:\
\
\
Life   would be  ec-            sta-    sy,        You  an\'92  me   end-  less- ly \
\
\
In all music, the emphasis always goes on the first part of a beat.  \
\
In this case, in the first measure is emphasized for the notes that correspond to the lyrics, \'93Life\'94, \'93be\'94, \'93ec-\'94(as in ec-sta-sy)  and \'93sy\'94(again, as in ec-sta-sy) (This is a vast oversimplification, but it works for now). So, the lyrics would be emphasized as such:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Life
\b0  would 
\b be
\b0  
\b ec
\b0 -sta-
\b sy
\b0 \
\
This musical emphasis matches the spoken emphasis of the phrase, so it is intelligible as a lyric.  (Though ecstasy\'92s first syllable doesn\'92t start on the first part of beat three, it is still on the first part of beat three, and therefore still emphasized.  Alternatively, since the first part of beat two didn\'92t have a hard stop to it, the emphasis could have rolled over to the second part,  \'93ec\'94, which does have a hard stop. These are the sorts of things I need to figure out formal rules for.  I only know them by intuition right now.)\
\
In contrast, take the second measure:  the syllables \'93You\'94, \'93me\'94, and \'93less\'94 are emphasized.  This leads to conflicting musical and spoken phrasing:\uc0\u8232 \
Musical Phrasing:	
\b You
\b0  and 
\b me
\b0   end
\b less
\b0 ly\
Spoken Phrasing: 	
\b You
\b0  and 
\b me
\b0   
\b end
\b0 lessly\
	 
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
The singer is now singing the phrase, syllable by syllable, which they think of as syllable-note combinations:\
YOU and ME end LESS lee\
The singer, for his part, is doing what many singers are taught to do, to make it easier to sustain the singing of words that end with unsingable consonants: the unsingable consonant is displaced onto the front of the next word.  In this case, the consonant \'93d\'94 is not singable, so he displaces it onto the next syllable, when he can:  \'93and ME\'94 becomes \'93an   dME\'94, and \'93end LESS\'94  becomes \'93en  dLESS\'94.  So, the singer can effectively think of the sung phrase as:\
\
YOU an  dME en dLESS lee\
\
This doesn\'92t cause confusion to listeners, because they\'92re used to hearing it.  This does mean, however, that lyric placement does not provide an accurate barometer of where a word actually ends.   \
\
 In addition, the singer is singing fudging his vowels, like singers are taught to do,   so \'93and\'94 and \'93end\'94 sound almost indistinguishable.  So, really, what listeners are hearing is this:\
  YOU en dME en dLESS lee\
\
Now, the listener\'92s brain has to take this syllabic gobbldygook, and parse it into something useful.  They\'92ve currently got this mess to deal with (represented in SAMPA syllables):\
ju En dmi En dl@s li\
\
\
They parse the first part just fine, because the emphases match:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural
\cf3 you and me\cf0  En dl@s li\
\
\
But no one says endLESSly.  People say ENDlessly.  So,  the listeners don\'92t recognize it. they have to work with what they have.  They already turned one \'93En d\'94 into an \'93and\'94, so they do it again:\
you and me and l@s li\
\
Now, they\'92re just left with LESS lee.  And that fits Leslie, a proper noun that fits in context and in emphasis placement.  So, the final heard lyric is:\
\
you and me and Les- lie\
\
The misunderstanding can be traced by to improper emphasis placement.  The songwriter probably didn\'92t even think of that, and now he\'92s stuck:  a one-hit-wonder with a misunderstood song.  I bet that in interview after interview, someone asks him who Leslie is.  It\'92s probably very frustrating\'97especially since he could have just moved the word an eight note later, and it would have been understood perfectly.  That\'92s the sort of situation this program is going to help avoid.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Comparison to Existing Systems:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi630\sl360\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Tra-la-lyrics is the closest system that exists to the proposed system.  It takes lyrics in Portuguese, and matches them via emphases to the music.  This is different from our system, because our system will use English-language lyrics.\
\
There are many systems that take lyrics and match them with notes, but very few use any sort of rhythmic rule set to do so.  Karaoke systems match lyrics to music on a time-based system, which is inadequate for our purposes.  However, the Wedelmusic model of a composition can be easily extended to include support for musical emphases, because of the way it separates out music and lyrics. Also, since it can be easily converted into an XML format, the composition can be transferred between programs, given the correct parser.\
}